[MUSIC PLAYING]
MIKE: Welcome to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams, the
editor of National News.
ED: And I'm Dr. Ed Group, the
owner of Global Healing Center.
MIKE: And today,
on this episode,
we're covering how to avoid and
recognize GMOs-- genetically
modified organisms.
That's a topic that a lot of
people are interested in, Ed.
ED: I tell you what.
It's really sweeping
the globe right now.
I mean, they've had
March Against Monsanto.
And I think many
people are starting
to realize what GMOs are.
I mean, GMOs are genetically
modified organisms.
How do they actually
create GMOs, Mike?
MIKE: Well, we have a
handy DNA model right here,
to help show the people.
This is a not to
scale model of DNA.
But what scientists
do is, they actually
insert genes of another species
inside the gene of a plant--
normally like corn,
or soy, cotton,
canola, and sugar beets is
another common one, and now
alfalfa.
In fact, they've been
experimenting with wheat.
And we could talk about
how that pollution
happened in Oregon, polluted
the commercial wheat fields.
But basically, they take a gene.
They insert it into the
genome, the gene sequence,
to modify the gene
expression of that plant.
And this is not natural.
This doesn't ever
happen in nature.
What they do is, they're mixing
insect genes with plant genes,
or insect genes with
mammal genes, sometimes,
or even soil bacteria
genes with plant genes.
It's completely unnatural.
It is called Frankenscience
by many people.
But that's the truth about GMOs.
ED: And this is a
dangerous, dangerous thing.
I mean, and this
is something that
is so damaging
that it's literally
affecting the world right now.
Monsanto-- there's a
couple different companies.
Monsanto, Dow AgroSciences,
Syngenta-- all these companies
are actually trying to take
control of the food supply.
And what happens to animals
and what happens to people when
they eat these
genetically modified
organisms is their gene change.
I mean, we're seeing the
bee population now being
linked to genetically modified
pollen, which can travel
up to 500 miles sometimes.
We're seeing the
butterfly population.
We're seeing damage
to the soils.
So, Mike, what are
the most common
GMOs that people are
eating every day?
MIKE: First, let me
speak to your point.
What you're talking
about is called
transgenic effects of the GMOs.
Now, if you take
genetically modified
corn, which we have right
here to show you some of it.
This is GMO corn.
This is Monsanto's intellectual
property, even though I
bought it somewhere else.
Every kernel of
this corn contains
a poison that kills insects.
And this poison is
called Bt toxin.
And it was created by
inserting a soil microbe
genetic code into
the corn which is,
again, completely unnatural.
But when you eat
that-- you know,
your body is more
bacteria than human cells.
You actually, literally,
have more bacteria cells
in your body than human cells.
You are more
bacteria than human,
in essence, at a
cellular level, because
of the probiotics in your gut.
Well, the theory is that some
of the genetic code of the corn
can then interact with the
genes of your gut bacteria,
creating a transgenic
phenomenon that then causes
your bacteria in your own
gut to start producing
Bt toxin in your own gut.
Effectively, Ed, you turn
your gut into a poison factory
where you begin
producing the insecticide
and absorbing it
through your gut wall.
That is toxic.
ED: That's exactly
what's happening, Mike.
And since GMO foods
were introduced in 1996,
if you look at any
degenerative disease,
you will see a spike upwards.
And here's the reason why.
Like you were talking about,
the bacillus thuringiensis
is the bacteria that
produces the Bt toxin.
What happens when people
consume corn chips?
All the stuff in
processed foods,
mostly soy or corn, which--
96% to 98% of all soy
is genetically modified.
Even in soybean oil, soy
lecithin, some of the things
we're going to be
talking a little bit
about today, when that toxin
gets inside the system,
it wreaks havoc.
And actually, it has now
been proven to burn holes
through the intestinal lining.
Once you burn holes through
the intestinal lining,
all the toxins that
you're consuming--
all the other toxins in the
food and everything else--
end up causing an
immune response.
This is a stomach, right here.
MIKE: And this is
roughly to scale.
ED: This is roughly to scale.
MIKE: Unless you've
had bariatric surgery
and they've taken
most of it out.
This is--
ED: Whoa!
MIKE: There goes the pancreas.
Sorry about that.
ED: Well, let's
open up the stomach
and show that the
stomach actually
has parietal cells in there.
And what happens
with the Bt toxin,
the Bt toxin actually alters
the cells in the stomach.
And not only the stomach, but
when food leaves the stomach it
goes into the small intestine.
And a big problem, Mike, also,
is that people aren't chewing
their food enough to digest.
We have natural enzymes in our
mouth, amylase and patulin.
Those are there that we
secrete to help us digest
foods and break foods down.
But you know, the
normal person swallows
their food only after about
10 chews, five to 10 chews--
MIKE: Wofling it down.
ED: --which is large
food particles.
MIKE: But back to the GMOs.
There have been studies now
showing that animals fed
genetically modified foods
as a significant part
of their animal feed
suffered from inflammation
of their stomachs.
And there are other studies--
and you can see the photos
we're showing right here, the
Seralini GMO rat study that
caused these rats to
grow cancer tumors,
huge monstrous tumors,
because they were eating
GMOs and Glyphosate,
the chemical that's
usually sprayed on GMO crops.
Also in that study, Ed, those
rats-- 70% of the females
died prematurely, 70%.
And all of the rats suffered
extreme organ damage.
We're talking about damage
to the liver, to the kidneys,
to the heart, but
also fertility.
This is a big issue.
You want to know why
there's so much infertility
in the United States today?
I believe that GMOs
are a part of that.
The infertility has been
shown in animal studies.
ED: Absolutely.
After three generations,
the rats were infertile
and completely sterile.
And right now, Mike,
if you look at,
since GMOs were
introduced in 1996,
we have become an
infertile nation.
I mean, there's
infertility clinics
practically on every corner.
MIKE: As much as dialysis.
ED: Males are becoming sterile.
I mean, this is a
major situation.
I mean, I would rank GMOs--
and the toxic effects of GMOs--
as one of the number one, two,
or three major world crises
right now.
MIKE: I completely agree.
We're going to talk about
genetic pollution and the fact
that the entire biosphere
is being compromised,
threatened, by GMOs.
But to do that, let's go back
to this for just a second.
I want to explain a
very important concept.
When companies like Monsanto
modify the genetic code
of a crop, they then claim
intellectual property ownership
over that gene sequence.
And the way they
do that is, they
apply to the US Patent Office.
And they say it's different.
You can't apply for a
patent on something that's
the same as, you know,
wild corn or normal,
common, conventional corn.
This is a special GMO corn.
They say, we own it
because we engineered it.
It's different.
But then, when it
comes to talking
to the FDA and the
USDA, Monsanto's lawyers
say, wait a minute.
It's not different.
It's the same.
So we don't need to test it.
We don't need any
testing whatsoever.
It's safe because it's the same.
But how can something be
the same and different
at the same time, Ed?
That doesn't make
any sense to me.
Maybe I'm just not lawyer
enough or something
to be able to understand that.
But how can the
same be different?
ED: Well Mike, if you
were creating GMOs
and I was the one in
charge of approving
those GMOs at the FDA, and
you came to me and said,
hey, Ed, good buddy.
Here's some money
under the table.
Approve these.
Then, maybe we'd be talking
about a situation here.
MIKE: That's true.
ED: I mean, because if
you look at the government
Michael Taylor, our
food czar, used to be
the attorney for Monsanto.
And he was the vice
president of Monsanto.
And if you look at
the USDA, you're going
to see ex Monsanto employees.
I mean, you have a
intertwined relationship
between the FDA, the
USDA, the EPA, and
these agroscience companies.
How can that be?
I mean--
MIKE: It's a revolving door.
Don't forget Donald Rumsfeld.
He was with Monsanto before.
ED: That's right.
MIKE: He's the guy who helped
get this approved-- aspartame--
which is actually the
fecal matter of genetically
engineered bacteria.
So even aspartame, in addition
to producing formaldehyde
and, you know, other chemicals
that are bad for you,
it's also genetically
engineered by bacteria.
So Ed, let's talk about--
these GMOs are hard to avoid.
Is very difficult to
know because it's so
insidious in the food supply.
So let's talk about all
the hidden ingredients
where people are
taking in these GMOs
and not knowing it
because a lot of people,
they're looking to avoid GMOs.
They know what
we're talking about.
They don't want to eat GMOs.
And they want them
labeled, one or the other.
But it's hard to avoid them
because they're everywhere.
ED: That's right.
And you know, soy is
one of the biggest GMOs.
And soy is so
damaging because soy
actually contains
phytoestrogens and phytic acids.
And it mimics
estrogen in the body.
I mean, Mike, we have
seven-year-old girls now
having their menstrual cycle.
And think about the
effects of GMO soy
altering the children's genes.
Again, the government
only approves,
for welfare and WIC programs,
soy formulas for babies.
MIKE: Oh, man.
ED: Right?
This is one of the worst things.
I mean, this is just
so disheartening,
because how on earth can you
feed a baby who-- by the way,
a child's immune system
is not fully developed
until it's 12 years old.
A child's intestinal tract
is extremely sensitive.
You have babies that have
extreme allergies to foods
because, at an early age,
they're on soy formulas.
They're on formulas that contain
GMO corn, GMO oils, and the Bt
toxin, which is burning holes
through their intestinal lining
causing, from birth, severe
allergies and severe problems.
And that's why
pediatrician's offices
are just jam-packed
full with problems
from all these GMO foods.
MIKE: And they don't tell
parents want to avoid.
But let's look at this,
since you brought it up.
Here's a product,
Similac Go and Grow.
This is infant formula.
Let me read for you just the
first four or five ingredients.
They will blow your mind.
Ingredient number one--
42.6% corn syrup solids.
ED: From genetically modified--
MIKE: From GMO corn.
ED: So number one
ingredient is a GMO corn.
MIKE: And it's 42%.
Are babies supposed to
eat 42% refined sugar?
I don't think so.
ED: That right there
is child abuse, Mike.
I mean, that is poison.
MIKE: I believe it's
nutritional child abuse.
ED: I mean--
MIKE: OK.
Second ingredient-- 14.7%
soy protein isolate.
Soy.
GMO.
ED: Soy protein isolate is
actually a flavor enhancer.
And it's actually made with MSG.
MSG is added to soy
protein isolate.
MIKE: Well and
also, soy protein is
extracted, typically,
with hexane, a highly
explosive chemical solvent.
In fact, I think one
factory in the US
blew up, exploded, from
doing this process.
ED: I think so.
MIKE: OK.
Next ingredient-- high
oleic safflower oil.
That's not the worst
thing in the world.
That's the first thing we've
seen in this that probably
isn't really dangerous.
And then next, 10.1%
sugar-- sucrose.
ED: So that's now up to like
50-something percent sugar now?
MIKE: It's 53% sugar, so far.
And then we have 8.4% soy oil.
ED: Oh, that's other GMO
ingredient right there.
MIKE: And then,
after that it goes
into artificial, synthetic,
chemical vitamins.
ED: By the way,
soy oil is actually
listed as a vegetable oil.
I don't even know
how they can do that.
It's not even a vegetable.
That's like--
MIKE: Yeah, well, I'm
sure that has fruit in it.
ED: Another way to hide
ingredients is just
say vegetable oils, you know?
It's not like broccoli oil
or something like that.
MIKE: But here, something else
I got to share with you, Ed.
This can is now a historical
artifact in American food
culture because, since I
publicized this starting about
two years ago, they have
removed all these percentages
from the label.
ED: Really?
MIKE: Yeah.
They've taken off the
42.6% because they
gave us too much information.
We went on the internet.
We were talking about this.
We were showing,
you know, babies
are being fed these
incredible amounts of sugars.
It's crazy.
So the changed the label.
But now, what you can
buy-- check this out.
Similac sensitive.
This is for fussiness and gas.
ED: Caused by the day
before feeding of the GMOs.
MIKE: GMOs cause
stomach information.
We already talked about that.
And then this formula--
ED: So they actually show what's
causing it right on the label.
And it even says something
about shield on there.
MIKE: It says early shield.
It says early shield.
There's like a little
shield on the label.
This is supposed to shield
your baby from something.
We're not sure.
But it's actually-- actually,
Ed, it's accurately labeled.
It's the Similac
fussiness and gas formula.
It gives your baby
fussiness and gas.
That's what it does.
ED: It tells you exactly
what it does on the label.
MIKE: It says for
fussiness and gas.
ED: Now you wonder
why parents aren't
getting any sleep at night.
Because they're feeding their
kids all these toxic baby
formulas.
And then you're seeing
nutritional deficiencies.
I mean look, folks.
They're starting at
an early age, Mike.
They know that if
they poison infants,
then by the time--
and this is happening.
These things cause
obesity as well.
And as they feed
these to infants,
the infants become obese.
We're seeing
degenerative diseases
that we would normally see in
30-year-olds, 40-year-olds,
in children.
MIKE: Well, remember
type 2 diabetes
used to be called
adult onset diabetes.
They had to change the name
because children have it now.
I mean, they're getting it
at nine, 10, 11 years old.
Same thing with cancers.
You know, 100 years ago, doctors
would travel hundreds of miles
to find a cancer
patient to study
because it was such an anomaly.
Now cancer's everywhere.
Now autism is everywhere.
We're going to do a show
on autism right here--
ED: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
MIKE: --I'm telling
you, by the way.
So hopefully, watch
more of our shows.
We're going to cover
autism in the future.
But all of these diseases
that are now devastating
our society-- you got to get
back to what you're eating
and how it's made.
And again, companies
like Monsanto
are inserting, artificially,
through non-natural processes,
genetic code to produce
poison whose sole purpose
is to kill living systems.
That is the point of Bt toxin.
The point that I'm-- I'm sorry.
I wasn't trying
to hold your hand.
ED: It actually makes the
stomachs of the bugs blow up,
when they eat the Bt corn.
MIKE: Exactly.
It is a poison by design.
And when you eat the GMO
corn, you're eating poison.
ED: Think about everything
that you eat on a daily basis
that has corn in it.
I mean, you start with
cereal in the morning.
Then you have the
soft drinks that we
talked about, with corn.
Then you have chips like
this, corn chips everywhere.
Then you go have tortillas.
I mean, you have breads
that are made with corn.
I mean, corn is everywhere.
And soy is everywhere
these days, too.
I mean, it's--
MIKE: And let's talk about
some of the other ingredients.
Right here is soy lecithin.
We have it conveniently labeled.
This is a GMO derivative
that is-- well,
it has a nutritional
component, choline, I believe,
acetylcholine.
But it also is used as a flow
agent in a lot of super foods
like a filler because
this is dirt cheap.
So a lot of companies that
are making super foods,
they'll buy a few
high-priced ingredients.
And they'll mix them with up to
50% of soy lecithin from GMOs.
And they'll call
it a super food.
ED: And protein powders,
too, contain soy lecithin.
And even vitamins and minerals
and stuff are containing
genetically modified stuff.
MIKE: That's right.
I'm glad you mentioned that.
Vitamin C, in your
cheap, low-end
vitamins-- your
multivitamins that you might
buy at a convenience
store or grocery store--
that vitamin C is
ascorbic acid derived
from genetically modified corn.
Is not even full spectrum C. And
it's certainly not non-GMO C.
You actually have to
go out of your way
to find vitamin C that's
derived from non-GMO sources.
ED: You know, Mike,
it makes you wonder
if the pharmaceutical companies
are tied into this whole thing
because, you know,
create sickness
where you can create money.
And give them more
pharmaceuticals.
And you have this revolving
door between these three or four
different industries
that, you know,
continually feed
themselves with money.
And why is it that these
corporations are spending
so much money and
setting up these seed
vaults in the Arctics everywhere
to protect the natural seeds?
Because I think they know that
they're going to contaminate
the world with this stuff.
MIKE: Well, let's talk
about genetic pollution.
But first, to your point, I
believe it's 56 countries now
that have either banned
GMOs or have demanded
they be labeled on the foods.
But in the United States,
there's no real labeling.
For example, this Kellogg's
Pop-Tarts product most likely
almost certainly contains GMOs.
But we don't know
100% because it's not
required to be on the label.
But when you look at the
ingredients-- the corn syrup,
the high fructose corn syrup,
the soy bean oil-- this is GMO.
But companies that
don't use GMOs
like this company, the Better
Chip Company, specifically
avoid GMOs.
And they say so
right on the label.
Right here it says, no
genetically modified
ingredients.
The same thing is true
with Amy's kitchen
products, Nature's Path.
ED: Organic products--
MIKE: Exactly.
ED: --that say non-GMO verified.
There's a seal for that
that people can look for.
MIKE: Yep.
We'll show you that
a little bit later.
We've got some of
that here to show you.
But then, when you pick
up a bag of Doritos,
let's say-- this
really loud-- this
is made from, almost certainly,
again, genetically modified
corn.
But you don't see a GMO
warning anywhere on the label.
In fact it's kind of like, if
you look at the ingredients
on this-- it's got MSG in it and
a bunch of other weird things,
artificial colors.
ED: Yeah.
MIKE: I mean, look at it.
ED: That stuff's
just really toxic.
MIKE: That's not real food, man.
ED: You know what?
I actually called some
of the chip companies.
And I asked them when they
were planning on switching
from GMOs to non-GMOs.
And they told me
over the phone it
was too expensive at this time.
And they told me
that they could not
source enough non-GMO material.
MIKE: Wow.
Well that's why, those
of you watching here,
we really encourage
you to spread the word,
because this is a victory
that we are going to achieve
by shifting consumer demand.
Every time that you shop, when
you choose a non-GMO product
instead of a GMO
product, you are,
in effect, investing
in a non-GMO future
for the entire food supply.
ED: Yes.
MIKE: When you buy GMOs, you
are-- well, think about this.
GMOs are one of the,
maybe the only thing,
that you buy accidentally.
You don't know
you're buying them.
But you're buying them anyway.
And as a result, that money
is going to the farmer
that grew GMO corn.
And that money's
going to Monsanto.
So when you buy GMO products
like in those Doritos
or these Pop-Tarts or
the breakfast cereals,
you are supporting Monsanto.
ED: And by the way, Monsanto
is the same company that
introduced Agent Orange and
DDT, that ran commercials
in the early days
saying DDT was safe
when the children were out
there playing in this big smoke
of DDT and chemicals.
And now, DDT is found in breast
milk of 99% of the women.
MIKE: That's scary.
We got to do an episode
on breastmilk, too.
But you're right.
In fact, I think 50% of the
ingredient of DDT is 2,4-D,
one of the most widespread
chemical pesticides.
In fact, Monsanto is right now
experimenting with crops that
will be resistant to
2,4-D. They're being called
Agent Orange-resistant crops.
ED: And that's because the weeds
are being resistant to Roundup.
And we didn't even get
into that conversation.
You mentioned Glyphosate.
But Glyphosate is nothing
more than Roundup.
Yes.
The weed killer that you
probably have in your garage
is extremely toxic.
It's damaging the soil.
Millions and millions of gallons
of that are being bought.
And again, you know, you talk
about environmental issues.
All that Glyphosate goes
back into the water supply.
It help-- kills the fish.
It alters the environment.
MIKE: Destroys
the soil microbes.
ED: The ecosystem
is being destroyed.
And now, after three
or four or five years,
I mean the farmers are having
to use three times, four times,
five times as much of this
herbicide to control the weeds.
And the weeds are
becoming resistant to it.
MIKE: And let's talk.
ED: And we're getting Glyphosate
in our foods, as well.
MIKE: And Glyphosate
in our bodies,
which has been shown
to promote cancer
at low parts per billion.
ED: Yes.
MIKE: We're talking
about very trace amounts
now being linked to cancer.
That study just
came out recently.
But check this out.
Genes, obviously,
are self-replicating.
That's what they do.
That's why you can
heal your skin.
That's why you can, you
know, have children.
Genes replicate.
Well, what happens
when genes become
pollution because they're
genetically engineered?
Then you have
self-replicating pollution.
ED: Yes.
MIKE: Now Ed, if you spill
oil in the Gulf of Mexico,
as happened with
BP, even though it's
bad-- it's a terrible
catastrophe-- you
can eventually clean it
up and eliminate the oil,
sooner or later.
With GMOs, you can never put
this back in Pandora's box
because this is self-replicating
that keeps on growing.
And in fact, there has been
contamination of fields that
was completely
unexpected by Monsanto
and unexpected by the USDA.
There are open field trials
being conducted right now where
the wind and pollinators carry
those genes to other fields
and contaminate those fields.
And Monsanto is so egotistical
about this, Ed, that actually
sue the farmer whose
fields got contaminated,
saying that farmer stole
their intellectual property.
ED: Well, think about
this-- the impact on humans.
I mean, there has been
thousands, thousands
of Indian farmers that have
committed suicide in India
because what they normally
do-- they planted GMO cotton.
And what they normally do
is, when the cotton is done,
they let their animals--
the ox, the buffalo,
and the pigs and
everything-- go in
and eat the rest of the plant.
Well what happened was,
these animals went in an ate
the rest of the GM cotton.
And they all died.
And they have a
law in India that
states that if the farmer
dies, his debt is released
at the time of his death.
Well, these farmers
are so in debt
to Monsanto-- because they
bought all these seeds
and they promised and they
signed contracts with Monsanto,
and they don't want
to grow it anymore
so there's legal battles--
that these farmers are actually
committing suicide
by the thousands.
MIKE: This becomes a system,
if you think about it,
of corporate-run
agricultural servitude.
It's a form of slavery, just
using intellectual property
and the Frankenfood system that
Monsanto has really pioneered.
But you mentioned something
earlier too, Ed-- child abuse.
I think you would
agree with me when
I say that feeding a
child these substances
is a form of
nutritional child abuse.
You know, we would all agree
that it's wrong to beat a child
and break their arm or
beat them black and blue
to where you're harming them.
That's wrong.
And it's a crime.
And it should be.
Well, why is it OK to damage
a child at the cellular level?
Why is it OK to
poison their stomachs,
to poison their organs,
to give them hugely
increased risks of cancer?
Why is that legal?
It makes no sense.
ED: You know, the damaging
effects of doing that
to your child is unbelievable.
I mean, if you look
at pediatricians--
and I've done studies
on children these days.
Over the last 15 years,
childhood allergies
have gone through the roof.
One out of every two children--
even more than that, really,
if you look at like 99
out of every 100 children
will have some type
of food allergy.
And we're going to
talk about solutions
and how to detox GMOs.
But the doctors
that know-- which
are very, very,
very few-- as soon
as they take their
children off of all GMOs,
the allergies go away.
And they start feeling
better, looking better.
They're not as hyperactive.
They're not throwing
temper tantrums.
They're not having rashes
all over their skins.
It's a major issue.
MIKE: Exactly.
Yeah.
You get to real
food, it's amazing
how the body heals itself.
But now, let's talk
about solutions.
What can you do to avoid
these GMOs and recognize them,
as we've talked about, both
for yourself and your family?
ED: So yeah, Mike.
You know, I get the
question all the time--
and I'm sure you do, too-- how
do I detox my body from GMOs?
MIKE: Well, there's
two strategies, right?
Detox and avoidance.
ED: Exactly.
MIKE: So let's talk
about avoidance
first because that's easier.
Here's a breakfast cereal from
a company called Nature's Path.
And this is really, in
my view, this is the best
cereal company on the planet.
They never use GMOs.
And their entire product
line's certified organic.
And no, they didn't pay
us to plug their product.
This is just what we eat.
You'll notice that they--
you probably can't see it.
But they have a non-GMO Project
verified logo on the box.
You'll see this on
other products, as well.
Look for that logo.
Also look for the
USDA organic seal.
That tells you that it
doesn't contain GMOs.
So that's number one-- avoiding.
ED: Avoid it.
MIKE: Yeah.
ED: Just switch to organic.
I mean, that's the best way
that we can say to avoid
GMOs is to switch to organic.
And I'm sure the next
thing you're going to say
is to learn how to read
the ingredient label.
MIKE: Well, I think--
ED: Which we always say.
MIKE: Every show,
we tell people,
read the ingredients labels.
Avoid soy.
And avoid non-organic corn.
I mean, right there you're
going to avoid 90% of the GMOs
in the food supply, if you
avoid those two things.
ED: Absolutely.
Avoid that.
And then the third thing, what
I recommend is, clean the body.
And give the body what it needs.
And how we do it is, we
keep the intestines clean.
And then we also supplement
with good probiotics.
And it usually takes
about 60 days to 90 days
to repair-- completely repair--
the gut from GMO damage.
But the good news is,
it can be repaired.
And in studies where
they've taken workers
down in South Africa that
were fed GMO corn while they
worked in the field, they
were extremely sick, ill,
even dying.
When they got them
off the GMO corn
and put them back
on an organic corn
diet or a non-GMO corn
diet, their symptoms
went away within 30 to 60 days.
MIKE: Now, another
thing that you can do
is, of course, grow
some of your own food.
I know gardening's
difficult. You know,
but you can use
aquaponics systems
to help out, make it easier.
You can garden at waist
level, just like right here.
You could have a
garden growing here.
You can juice some of
your own beets and kale,
really easy to grow.
Carrots are super easy to
grow, even sweet potatoes.
Grow as much as you can.
And then, for the
things you have to buy,
buy organic, chemical free,
local farmers markets, CSAs
wherever possible.
Avoid food that's in
packages as much as possible.
If you get it in a package,
look for the non-GMO logo
or the organic logo.
That right there will give
you 99% overall protection.
ED: Absolutely.
I totally agree with you.
It all comes back to what
you're putting in your mouth.
Everything that you
put in your mouth
is either going to be toxic
or it's going to be non-toxic.
It's going to be live.
Life equals-- live equals life.
I mean really, if you think
about it, death equals death.
If you put dead, processed,
and garbage foods in it,
it's going to cause death
over a period of time.
If you put live ingredients
and foods from nature that
are organic into your
system, your body is
going to turn into an organic--
MIKE: And if you're suffering
from stomach inflammation
right now because of what we
talked about with the GMOs,
eat and drink soothing foods.
Get the GMOs out.
But start detoxing
your body with
these alkaline fresh juices.
You're probably-- maybe you've
done some juicing in the past.
Do more of it.
You know, get some
celery juice, some apple
juice, some kale juice, beets.
Put a little bit of
lemon in it if you want.
Get a juicing machine or a
juice press, whatever it takes.
You will heal yourself.
Because let's face it--
you have genetic code, too.
ED: Exactly.
MIKE: And your genetic code is
a blueprint for perfect health.
Perfect health--
that's your blueprint.
All you've got to do to
achieve that is to activate
your genetic code that is the
blueprint for perfect health
and stop compromising
your own genetic code.
ED: Mike, check out
these shocking facts
that I came up with.
Did you know soy formulas
contain up to six times more
cadmium than cow milk formula?
And cadmium is one of the worst,
the largest single contributor
to autoimmune thyroid disease.
MIKE: It's also an
estrogen mimicker.
ED: That's right.
Phytates in soy block the
absorption of zinc, iron,
iodine, calcium, and magnesium.
MIKE: Wow.
ED: Why do you think
so many people have--
MIKE: Causing
nutritional deficiencies.
ED: --mineral deficiencies?
MIKE: Yep.
There you go.
ED: Soy protein isolate,
which we talked about earlier,
always contains hidden
MSG to cause addictions.
It's all about addictions
with these foods.
And soy protein
isolate produces twice
the IGF-1-- that's
insulin growth
factor 1-- than cow's milk.
IGF-1 is the strongest cancer
stimulator humans consume.
And rats were fed GMO
Roundup Ready corn.
They suffered severe
adverse effects,
including mammary
tumors, kidney, liver
damage, and premature death.
More than half the
babies of mother rats
fed GM soy died
within three weeks.
And we talked about
hamsters becoming infertile.
But soy allergy skyrocketed
by 50% in Europe
after GM soy was introduced.
I mean, there's plenty
of studies out there
that prove this.
MIKE: Well, that's our show.
Thanks for watching Secrets
to Health here on Gaiam TV.
Check out our website,
secretstohealth.tv
for more episodes.
If you want to check
out more of our work,
I'm Mike Adams of Natural News--
ED: And I'm Doctor Ed Group
with Global Healing Center.
MIKE: And remember, as we
both agree, just say no--
BOTH: --to GMO.